---
path: "/2009/03/14/TheBeginningoftheEnd" 
date: "2009/03/14 22:01:45" 
title: "The Beginning of the End" 
---
<p>In <a href="http://www.shirky.com/weblog/2009/03/newspapers-and-thinking-the-unthinkable/">Newspapers and Thinking the Unthinkable</a>, Clary Shirky writes:</p><br><blockquote><p>When reality is labeled unthinkable, it creates a kind of sickness in an industry. Leadership becomes faith-based, while employees who have the temerity to suggest that what seems to be happening is in fact happening are herded into Innovation Departments, where they can be ignored *en masse*. This shunting aside of the realists in favor of the fabulists has different effects on different industries at different times.</p></blockquote><br><p>On reading this, I started wondering: what might this look like in the advertising industry? And it occurred to me that it might look a lot like <a href="http://tjcnyc.wordpress.com/2009/03/12/tide-loads-of-hope-pg-digital-hack-night-executive-summary/">some of the largest advertisers in the world trying desperately (and failing) to apply traditional models to a new landscape</a>. At risk of being moved to the Innovation Department (I work at an ad agency), some realism: broadcasting without listening doesn't work in systems designed for conversation. And fake listening doesn't scale. Back to Shirky, with some edits by me:</p><br><blockquote><p>Round and round this goes, with the people committed to saving <del>newspapers</del> <ins>advertising</ins> demanding to know "If the old model is broken, what will work in its place?" To which the answer is: Nothing. Nothing will work. There is no general model for <del>newspapers</del> <ins>advertising</ins> to replace the one the internet just broke.</p></blockquote>