---
path: "/2011/04/16/NewShoes" 
date: "2011/04/16 22:09:58" 
title: "New Shoes" 
---
<p>I was recently reminded this blog is here by <a href="http://typewriting.org/2010/01/13/Reality/#comment-4851">a nice comment</a> that began "Please keep posting", so here I am, keeping posting. I last posted over a year ago, and in that year I turned 30 (then 31), stopped doing much work on my house and started just living in it, and a bunch of other stuff that makes me feel like I'm doing a pretty good job pretending to be an adult.</p><br><p>As a faux adult, I recently bought a new pair of Converse All Stars. After several years of wearing a few successive pairs of the same style of shoe, black leather Rockports, I decided I won't be dressing up much for the rest of my life, so I should go with some more casual shoes. Converse has been making pretty much the same shoe since long before I was born, so I figured I can avoid shopping for another decade or two.</p><br><p>The new shoes made me feel a little younger, a little cooler until about a week ago. I was getting ice cream at <a href="http://littlemanicecream.com/">Little Man</a> here in Denver, and an older woman walked by me in the other direction, followed by a younger woman. The younger woman stopped to point out something I'd missed. "You have the same shoes as my grandma," she said. So now the shoes feel kind of like an old man pretending to be young. Not that I feel old, nor young really; that's just what it feels like the shoes are saying to people.</p><br><p>So I guess that's where I am now: older, but wearing younger shoes.</p>