---
path: "/2005/12/12/A_Method_for_Improving_Social_Hygiene?" 
date: "2005/12/12 10:13:37" 
title: "A Method for Improving Social Hygiene?" 
---
<p>Dave Rogers has been writing about marketing within the frame of "Social Hygiene" <a href="http://homepage.mac.com/dave_rogers/GHD12-05.html#note_2495">here</a> and <a href="http://homepage.mac.com/dave_rogers/GHD12-05.html#note_2508">here</a>. At the end of the latter he wrote:</p><br><blockquote><p>If we're going to have any hope of preserving some space for purely social interactions, where someone isn't manipulating us for the purpose of seeking a competitive advantage, we're probably going to have to make one. But I wonder if it isn't already too late?</p></blockquote><br><p>One of the ways I reduce comment spam is to band certain words from being posted in comments. I was at first hesitant to do this, because someone might have a legitimate reason to mention propecia, for example. But then I realized that I don't want to hear other people's thoughts on propecia even if they aren't spam. So you can't comment on propecia here, depsite my ability to use the word three times in a single paragraph.</p><br><p>After reading Dave's post, I wondered if this technique couldn't be expanded to ban commerce from a social space. Here's how I would do it if I didn't already have far too many projects started:</p><br><p>Run all conversation through a filter. Submit each word in the text to the USPTO trademark search with a URL like <a href="http://tess2.uspto.gov/bin/showfield?f=toc&amp;p_lang=english&amp;p_d=trmk&amp;p_search=searchss&amp;p_L=50&amp;BackReference=&amp;p_plural=yes&amp;p_s_PARA1=&amp;p_tagrepl%7E%3A=PARA1%24LD&amp;expr=PARA1+AND+PARA2&amp;p_s_PARA2=propecia&amp;p_tagrepl%7E%3A=PARA2%24COMB&amp;p_op_ALL=AND&amp;a_default=search&amp;a_search=Submit+Query&amp;a_search=Submit+Query">this one for propecia</a>. If any results are found, replace the word with [commercial product], and maybe give each user an anti-karma value like "pawn of the man" with a point for each time they use a trademarked word. So because I've used the word propecia five times now, my name would say: Scott Reynen [Pawn of the man level 5] or something like that. And then you could kick me out if my POTM level got too high over a given period of time.</p><br><p>I'm sure this plan could use improvement, but I think it's entire feasible to ban all trademarked terms from a social space, and I think it would be an interesting experiment, if nothing else.</p>