---
path: "/2005/07/17/DashboardWidgetLessons" 
date: "2005/07/17 22:38:41" 
title: "Dashboard Widget Lessons" 
---
Over the last couple weeks I've been working on a Dashboard Widget, which I hope to release some time in the next month. I've come up against a few snags that could have been solved more quickly by better documentation, so I want to document those issues here both to publicly complain about them, and in hopes that doing so will hasten the release of some wonderful Dashboard widget.<br>Lesson one: Widget JavaScript alert statements go to the console. I didn't discover this in <a href="http://developer.apple.com/technotes/tn2005/tn2139.html">Technical Note TN2139 on Apple's website</a>until after I had already built an overly complex system to display feedback for debugging purposes. I assumed if such a useful development tool existed, it would be found in <a href="http://developer.apple.com/macosx/dashboard.html">Apple's Guide to Developing Dashboard Widgets</a>, which contains a code sample with an alert statement, but no mention of where that alert is going. This could be improved by Apple.<br>Lesson two: There is a developer mode for Dashboard.  This is also mentioned in <a href="http://developer.apple.com/technotes/tn2005/tn2139.html">TN2139</a>, a handy document that is <a href="http://www.google.com/search?q=link%3Adeveloper.apple.com%2Ftechnotes%2Ftn2005%2Ftn2139.html">currently (according to Google) mentioned on twelve different sites, none of them Apple</a>. But I already complained about Apple not referencing their own documentation in Lesson One. What I want to complain about in Lesson Two is that within that documentation, there are instructions for how to pull a widget off of the Dashboard in developer mode, but no mention of how to return the widget to the Dashboard.<br>I suspect this was assumed to be obvious, that Apple didn't anticipate someone as foolish as me would kill the entire Dashboard process, and then restart my computer, only to discover the Widget still floating over everything else on my screen. If anyone else missed the obvious, the process of getting widgets back into the Dashboard is roughly the opposite of the process for taking them out: click and hold the widget, turn the Dashboard on, and let the widget drop back into the Dashboard. A simple mention of this on any of Apple's Dashboard development pages would have saved me a lot of time.<br>Lesson Three: JavaScript's parseInt function parses any string with leading zeros as zero.  So, for example, when I was parsing the string "08" and expecting it to parse to an integer value of eight, it was actually parsing to an integer value of zero.  This seems less than ideal to me (I prefer how <a href="http://www.php.net/intval">PHP's intval</a> function works), but no doubt it's too late to change it now, as JavaScript applications have likely been built around this odd behavior. So just beware.<br>Other than these minor complaints, my widget is coming along nicely, and it's fun to develop a pseudo-desktop application using web technologies. It's less complicated than standard desktop development for the same reasons web applications are easier to develop. But it's also simpler than standard web development, as there is really only one platform to consider.