---
path: "/2005/11/06/DidLucilleBallStartStarTrek?" 
date: "2005/11/06 19:14:42" 
title: "Did Lucille Ball Start Star Trek?" 
---
<p>I've never watched much I Love Lucy. It was before my time. But I had a vague idea who Lucille Ball was. What I didn't know until just a few minutes ago, when <a href="http://www.pbs.org/wnet/americanmasters/database/ball_l.html">PBS</a> informed me, was that she divorced Desi Arnaz and bought his share of <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Desilu_Productions">Desilu Productions</a>, making her the first female head of a major Hollywood Studio. Under her leadership, the studio produced a lot of forgettable shows, but it was also home to the original Star Trek.</p><br><p>I Love Lucy ran 180 episodes. Star Trek spawned 6 different series of 726 episodes, ten movies, books, video games, an entire subculture, and it's not over yet. Star Trek has been wildly successful. <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Star_Trek/temp">A temporary page on Wikipedia</a>, not yet included into the main article on Star Trek, gives a history of Star Trek in which Lucille Ball was pivotal to the series making it past a pilot:</p><br><blockquote><p>NBC rejects the pilot as being too cerebral for 1965 television audiences. However, they like the concept enough to allow Roddenberry to film a second pilot. (This needs to be checked, but I believe "Inside Star Trek" indicates that the decision was the result of Lucille Ball playing hardball with the network regarding other Desilu productions and therefore championing Trek.)</p></blockquote><br><p>If this is all true, it's especially odd that everyone knows Lucille Ball from I Love Lucy, but hardly anyone knows of her role in the much more successful Star Trek series.</p>