---
path: "/2005/03/30/I_am_not_the_Pope" 
date: "2005/03/30 20:19:32" 
title: "I am not the Pope" 
---
<p>You work for NBC, and you need a picture of the Pope for a news story about the Pope's continuing decline in health. There are thousands of pictures to choose from, but there are also <a href="http://news.google.com/news?q=pope">thousands of stories on the Pope</a>, and you want something a little different. So you decide to <a href="http://images.google.com/images?q=pope">search Google for images of the Pope</a>. The first result of your search is a standard picture of the Pope holding a cross - none too interesting. But the second picture has <a href="http://www.randomchaos.com/images/scrapbook/pope.jpg">the Pope making a funny face</a>, which is interesting, and you might like to use that picture.  So you click through, and that's when you come to my website.</p><br><p>Today I discovered that my website is the second result for a Google image search for "pope." I discovered this after I got a message on my phone from someone at NBC, who wanted to know where I got the picture from. I got the picture from a friend, who I suspect has long since forgotten where he found it. But that's not the important point here. The important point is that out of 122,000 pictures of the Pope found by Google, mine is somehow considered the 2nd most relavent. There's a lot of topics I think I know a lot about, but the Pope is not one. There's something wrong with any search engine that points people searching for the Pope to me. I am not the Pope. I'm not even sure that picture is really the Pope.</p>