---
path: "/2005/09/09/Out-spendingisCheaper" 
date: "2005/09/09 22:19:18" 
title: "Out-spending is Cheaper" 
---
Kathy Sierra wrote an interesting post entitled <cite><a href="http://headrush.typepad.com/creating_passionate_users/2005/09/you_can_outspen.html">You can out-spend or out-teach</a></cite>, which I think does a nice job of capturing the current <a href="http://www.cluetrain.com/">Cluetrain</a>-inspired thinking on how *Everything is Different Online#8482;*. I'm skeptically optimistic about the changing marketplace of ideas. I think Kathy does a fine job of articulating my optimism, so I want to focus on my skepticism here.<br>The title is a good place to start. Kathy explains the virtues of teaching over spending, but I think anyone who has spent a day in a classroom will tell you that if it were possible to buy learning, they would. <strong>Teaching is hard. Spending is easy.</strong><br>And selling is also easier than learning. Kathy likes to talk about <q>helping your users kick ass</q>, but most users don't want to kick ass. Most people, most of the time, want to know what they're doing &#8212; not learn how to do something new. That's why we spend so much time watching TV rather than reading books. We want something easy. <q>Buy this pill and everything will be okay.</q> If I believed it, I'd buy the pill. And the temptation allows a lot of people to convince themselves, to deceive themselves, that it's true.<br>It's easy to blame the advertising agencies (though maybe not so easy for me now that I work at one) for selling us crap. It's easy to blame the Walmarts for stocking crap. It's easy to blame the ACMEs for manufacturing crap. But what about the customers? <strong>We buy the crap.</strong> We know it's crap, but we buy it anyway because crap is cheap. How do you teach someone who doesn't want to learn?<br>I hope this is changing. I hope people are gradually taking a more active role in their own lives, and shifting towards decisions and products that help them kick ass. But I don't see it changing fast enough to warrant calls for everyone to shift from out-spending to out-teaching. There's not a big enough market of students to handle all the would-be teachers.<br><a href="http://gapingvoid.com/">Hugh McLeod</a> was in traditional advertising and decided to try something new by doing word-of-mouth advertising through blogs, "blogvertising," he calls it. And it appears to be working for him. But he's selling fine wine and business suits. This is a very small niche market. Kathy is selling technology books. Another small niche market. I hope some day the world will be full of niche markets as we all explore the full diversity of the human experience. But Hugh is <a href="http://www.gapingvoid.com/Moveable_Type/archives/001642.html">proclaiming</a> (traditional) advertising is dead today. It's not. <strong>Traditional <q>buy this because it's/I'm pretty</q> advertising will not die until we all become more mindful shoppers.</strong><br>So how do we get from now to then? I have no idea, but I strongly suspect we do so much more slowly than I see Hugh or Kathy suggesting. I see them both teaching the teachers of this new education-based economy, but who is teaching the students? That's the harder part because students are good at distracting. <a href="http://www.everything2.com/index.pl?node_id=587896">Your ideas are intriguing to me and I wish to subscribe to your newsletter</a>, they say. Before you know it, you've condensed your out-teaching plan down to a pill form, available at their local Walmart in a variety of shiny colors.<br>But really, I'm optimistic.