---
path: "/2005/10/29/Source_Browser_Improvements" 
date: "2005/10/29 16:24:20" 
title: "Source Browser Improvements" 
---
<p>I updated <a href="http://www.randomchaos.com/source/">the source code</a> tool, and it's pretty cool, if I do say so myself. Instead of submitting suggestions via a form that emails me, you can now submit them via comments. This means you can read what anyone else suggests, you can ask questions about the code, and you're not relying solely on my good word that I will, in fact, give attribution for contributions I use as everyone else could see if I were to pass off your ideas as my own (which, of course, I would never do).</p><br><p>Because it's not in a form anymore, the source is now using syntax highlighting, which is easier to read. You can also now directly download the source of any page as a text file, which makes it much easier to reuse something you find here. In addition to making the tool easier for others, this will hopefully save me some time as I will no longer need to package up files and email them to people.</p><br><p>Now here's the coolest part: Whenever a source file references another source file, the source tool automatically creates a link to the source of the referenced file. This will make it much easier to reuse tools that use multiple files. But wait, there's more! It will also recognize SQL references to database tables, and link directly to the table in <a href="http://www.randomchaos.com/database/">the database browser</a> I recently made (and to which I still need to add more tables). So now pretty much everything on this site except passwords is open for anyone to see, download, reuse and comment upon.</p>