---
path: "/2005/12/10/SpamisaSocialProblem" 
date: "2005/12/10 14:03:21" 
title: "Spam is a Social Problem" 
---
<p>I just sent the following to an email list that has recently been discussing various anti-spam technologies:</p><br><blockquote><p>Spam is fundamentally a social problem, not a technological problem.  No amount of clever technology can end spam as long as there are still significant numbers of people out there who indicate through their purchases that they *want to receive spam*. <a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/technology/4375601.stm">The BBC reports</a>: <q>According to a survey conducted by security firm Mirapoint and market research company the Radicati Group, nearly a third of e-mail users have clicked on links in spam messages.</q></p><br><p>Imagine it costs $100 to send a million spam messages (though it doesn't cost nearly that much), and each message is selling a product with a $20 markup.  Only six of those million messages need to get through to a willing consumer to keep spam profitable.  And those six people will never be using Bayesian filters or whatever other nifty tools we can come up with, because they don't even recognize a problem with spam.  And those six people will also never self-identify, because they are embarrassed about their purchases.</p><br><p>So spammers can only reach them through mass emailing, and the rest of us suffer the consequences.  I don't know of any current anti-spam technology that does anything to deal with those six people.</p></blockquote><br><p>I'd like to see more economists and sociologists look at changing the factors that make spam the most desirable way to purchase certain products. Why do people buy propecia via spam rather than at their local pharmacy, and what could be done to change that? I think that's a more useful question to answer than how to quickly recognize "v14gr4" as a variant of "viagra."</p>