---
path: "/2005/05/01/Type_1_and_2_Diabetes" 
date: "2005/05/01 18:57:18" 
title: "Type 1 and 2 Diabetes" 
---
<p>I made <a href="http://www.thediabetesblog.com/2005/04/28/type-1-and-type-2-diabetes/#comments">a comment over on The Diabetes Blog</a> that has since caused further discusison, some of which seemed mildly offended at what I said. I'll reproduce it here in full:</p><br><blockquote>I've had negative feelings about type-2s for a while now. But I think it's sort of like watching rich people waste money. I'd probably do the same if I were rich, but as I'm not, it's annoying to see them waste something I'd love to have. In the case of type-2s, that something is the opportunity to not be diabetic, which to me is more valuable than money. But it never occurred to me that non-diabetics might feel the same way because they also have that something I'd love to have, so I wouldn't think it would bother them so much to see it wasted.</blockquote><br><p><a href="http://amy_tenderich.typepad.com/diabetes_mine/2005/04/diabetes_two_di.html">Amy Tenderich</a> quoted me, and a few type 2 diabetics have emailed me about this. I probably should have said that I realize that not every case of type 2 diabetes is self-inflicted. Further, I think I'm pretty good about not assuming I know what someone is going through just because they fit, or seem to fit, into some generalization. I have negative feelings about a lot of groups and individuals, but I still manage to respect them and remain on friendly terms with them.</p><br><p>That said, the generalization still stands as a generalization. Most type 2 diabetics are doing it to themselves, and the more I think about it, the more I think this should disturb not just type I diabetics, but everyone. For the record, I also do plenty of things that should disturb everyone, not the least of which is abusing my relatively mild diabetes with less-than-healthy diet and exercise. But the best I can do is not let my diabetes get worse. That's not true for most type 2 diabetics. They can get better, and they should.</p>