---
path: "/2010/01/13/Reality" 
date: "2010/01/13 21:44:30" 
title: "Reality" 
---
<p>I think the obvious next step beyond a set of ideas being <a href="http://typewriting.org/2010/01/10/Consistency/#content">internally consistent</a> is keeping those ideas consistent with the universe. For better or worse, the universe is our context, and it doesn't seem to much care for debate on how it works. I may think it would be really great if I could live forever, but reality suggests I can't, so I shouldn't grow attached the the idea of immortality.</p><br><p>On the other hand, the universe is full of change, so holding ideas consistent with reality necessitates holding a lot of conditional ideas. It's good to go outside and get some sun, until the sun becomes a cause of cancer. Being consistent with the universe doesn't mean siding with the sun and getting cancer; it means recognizing the risk of cancer and not going in the sun so much.</p><br><p>Even a principle as abstract as consistency with the universe already suggests to me some immediate implications for practical decisions. Accepting consistency with the universe as a virtue means avoiding any long-term escapism, e.g. heavy drug use, immersive fiction, or - most extreme - suicide.</p><br><p>Escapism is certainly appealing; the universe can be harsh. For some people, I can imagine it's so harsh that they just can't make it work. But because it's nowhere near that difficult for me, even in my most self-pitying moments, any escape will be temporary. And when it ends, when I go back to facing reality, the escape will prove regrettable, a missed opportunity, a procrastination.</p><br><p>A procrastination from what, I have no idea. I don't know where the universe is heading, or even if it has a direction. But it's going to take me along whether I like it or not, so I might as well appreciate the experiences, even the most difficult, as much as I can.</p><br><p>So to review: I'd like my ideas to not contradict each other, nor to contradict reality. I realize I've skipped over a big question here: what exactly is reality? I'll have to come back to that later.</p>