---
path: "/2004/01/13/arielsharonisright" 
date: "2004/01/13 05:07:33" 
title: "ariel sharon is right" 
---
<p>ariel sharon has long acted as the spokesperson for israel's failed policy with regards to basically all of its neighbors, leading to <a href="http://www.edge.org/q2004/q04_print.html#godwin">the inevitable comparisons to hitler</a>. (note: i'm not making that comparison here. i just thought this was a good opportunity to use the link.) i won't claim to be knowledgable about internal israeli politics, but as israel is a democracy (with the exception of its ruling over disputed lands full of people who aren't allowed to vote) i'm assuming sharon's policies are prompted by internal israeli politics.</p><br><p>and something about these politics seems to have changed recently, as sharon is now taking positions in contrast to his previous positions (by which i mean that i would now consider his positions reasonable whereas before i considered them unreasonable). specifically, sharon recognized that israel's neighbors are primarily bothered by israeli settlements outside of israel's established borders, and that the only way to end israel's conflicts short of killing every single citizen of a neighboring arab country is to end these settlements. which of course was met by <a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/3388015.stm">protest</a> from israelis who would apparently prefer the only alternate course i see (kill them all).</p><br><p>and then sharon offered to meet with syria to restart peace talks. and, of course, <a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/3389483.stm">syria refused</a>, saying "We need a serious response..." implying that sharon's statement, "I invite President Assad to come to Jerusalem to seriously negotiate", was not "serious" enough, but - like the israeli protestors - not offering any alternative course forward.</p><br><p>i point all of this out because it's not often that i have an opportunity to say that i think ariel sharon is right. now i need to find an instance in which i think george bush is right. then maybe i can finally make some conservative friends.</p>