---
path: "/2004/01/15/markpilgrimiswrong" 
date: "2004/01/15 01:12:12" 
title: "mark pilgrim is wrong" 
---
sigh...there was a time when i couldn't have come up with an example of mark pilgrim being wrong about a technical issue. but either the times or i have changed. <a href="http://diveintomark.org/archives/2004/01/14/thought_experiment">mark wants to do a "thought experiment"</a>, but without comments. lucky for me, i have my own weblog, in which i can point out how wrong mark's thoughts are.<br>mark's article starts by suggesting that the people who are calling for strict parsing of atom feeds don't themselves have valid markup. but this is entirely confusing the issue (and either it's intentional, or mark isn't as bright as i had thought). <a href="http://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/200x/2004/01/11/PostelPilgrim">tim bray</a> specifically stated: <q>This [strict parsing] works because Atom doesn?t have an installed base.</q> RSS and HTML have installed bases of invalid markup, so strict parsing doesn't work for these formats. mark ignores this part of what tim is saying and goes on to point out that the (X)HTML of people who are promoting strict parsing is invalid. but *no one is arguing here for strict HTML parsing*. the other factor mark is conveniently ignoring is that HTML is primarily produced by *people* whereas atom markup would be primarily produced by *computer programs*, which we can reasonably hold to a higher standard of strictness than people. RSS is much more like atom than HTML, and all but one of the people mark points to have valid RSS (and the one only has one minor error). mark seems to have made a better argument for strict parsing of RSS than for liberal parsing of atom.<br>but mark goes on, imagining that the comparison between atom and HTML is at all valid: <q>But imagine that all browsers worked this way, regardless of MIME type.</q> even pretending that is a valid comparison, this hypothetical situation is still ridiculous. to see why, just look at how long it has taken the <a href="http://www.webstandards.org/">web standards project</a> (which mark is a part of) to get all modern browsers to properly *display* standards, which doesn't even involve *enforcing* standards. all atom browsers are never going to be equally strict.<br>if mark is so horrified by the idea of a strictly parsing atom format browser, why doesn't he write his own browser? he is an experienced developer, after all. and if he's *right* about this, there's a market waiting to be taken. but if he's *wrong* about this, then <a href="http://inessential.com/?comments=1&amp;postid=2773">brent simmons</a>, someone who actually makes a popular RSS browser, is right when he emphasizes:<br><blockquote>Every minute I spend making my Atom parser more forgiving of not-well-formed XML is a minute taken away from working on features people are asking for, things like searching and synching and everything else.</blockquote><br>and <a href="http://nick.typepad.com/blog/2004/01/feeddemon_and_w.html">nick bradbury</a>, another developer of another popular RSS browser writes:<br><blockquote>Rather than wasting our time working around validation issues, aggregator authors such as myself can <a href="http://archive.scripting.com/2004/01/10#When:1:12:45PM">spend our time coding the features our users really want</a>.</blockquote><br>to me, this is the most compelling argument for strict parsing of atom, and mark doesn't even address it. there are two possible outcomes to this situation: mark is either wrong and we'll have his detractors to thank for a generally valid XML format, or he's right and we'll have him to thank for . . . well . . . being right. to paraphrase <a href="http://dalekeiger.com/archives/cat_commonplace_book.html#000539">camus</a>: it's better to be wrong by strictly parsing than to be right by invalid markup.