---
path: "/2004/03/18/morevs.more" 
date: "2004/03/18 07:19:20" 
title: "more vs. more" 
---
here's a idly speculative theory i just came up with. absent the boogie man of communism, american politicians are now free to combine the "ownership is good" principle of capitalism with the "ownership is bad" principle of communism. the result could be twice as good or twice as bad. a good politician would say "ownership is good for you and bad for me." but sadly most american politicians seem to be saying "ownership is bad for you and good for me."<br>ownership is decision making ability as far as economics are concerned, and how politicians view decision making ability in the economic realm tends to reflect how they view decision making in other realms. bush, for example, seems to support competition, except where his own interests are at stake. then he supports state-sponsored monopolies (like haliburton) that look an aweful lot like how things work under communism. he likewise voiced support for states' rights to make their own decisions regarding gay marriage, until they started making decisions he didn't like. then he supported taking that decision making ability away from them. similarly, he supported the judicial branch's right to interpret the constitution when their doing so gave him the presidency. but then they began interpretting it in ways he didn't like (gay marriage, affirmative action, etc.). now he calls them "activist judges".<br>the new division in politico-economic thought after the fall of communism - according to this theory - is no longer "communism vs. capitalism". it's "more for me" vs. "more for you".