---
path: "/2004/08/18/realclipmaker" 
date: "2004/08/18 18:26:13" 
title: "real clip maker" 
---
<a href="http://weblog.infoworld.com/udell/2004/08/18.html#a1062">jon udell</a> wrote (yet again) today about how there's no easy way to point to a URL for a clip of a video. he points out that it's entirely possible to do with real clips, but it's a tedious process. computers are good at tedious processes. <a href="http://www.real.com/">real</a> didn't see fit to enable this functionality for their users, but they did see fit to include a bunch of handy applescript hooks in their player (in version 9 at least), which allows a short bit of applescript to do the job nicely: <a href="http://www.randomchaos.com/geek/real_clip_maker.zip">here's some sample code</a>. that applescript isn't especially useful as is, because it doesn't allow any gap between the start time and end time. doing that would require the script to continue running while the video clip runs, plus a bit of interface (a button or two). i don't have time to figure out how to do that right now, but if someone else does, we'd have exactly what jon wants:<br><blockquote>It needs two new buttons: Start Clip and End Clip. When you click Start Clip, it notes the start time of a clip. When you click End Clip, it notes the end time and gives you the URL of the clip.</blockquote><br>here's the code if you're interested:<br><code style="white-space: pre;">tell application "RealOne Player"<br>	<br>	set wrapper_url to GetPlayingURL<br>	<br>	set start_time to GetPosition<br>	set start_seconds to round (start_time / 1000) rounding down<br>	<br>	set start_hours to round (start_seconds / 3600) rounding down<br>	set start_seconds to start_seconds - (start_hours * 3600)<br>	<br>	set start_minutes to round (start_seconds / 60) rounding down<br>	set start_seconds to start_seconds - (start_minutes * 60)<br>	<br>	set end_time to GetPosition<br>	set end_seconds to round (end_time / 1000) rounding down<br>	<br>	set end_hours to round (end_seconds / 3600) rounding down<br>	set end_seconds to end_seconds - (end_hours * 3600)<br>	<br>	set end_minutes to round (end_seconds / 60) rounding down<br>	set end_seconds to end_seconds - (end_minutes * 60)<br>	<br>	set real_url to do shell script "cURL " &amp; wrapper_url<br>	set ramgen_url to real_url<br>	set AppleScript's text item delimiters to "/"<br>	set ramgen_parts to text items of ramgen_url<br>	set item 1 of ramgen_parts to "http:"<br>	set item 3 of ramgen_parts to item 3 of ramgen_parts &amp; "/ramgen"<br>	set final_url to (ramgen_parts as string) &amp; "?start="<br>	if (start_hours > 0) then<br>		set final_url to final_url &amp; start_hours &amp; ":"<br>	end if<br>	set final_url to final_url &amp; start_minutes &amp; ":" &amp; start_seconds &amp; "&amp;amp;end="<br>	if (end_hours > 0) then<br>		set final_url to final_url &amp; end_hours &amp; ":"<br>	end if<br>	set final_url to final_url &amp; end_minutes &amp; ":" &amp; end_seconds<br>	<br>end tell</code>