---
path: "/2004/04/25/whatistheintifada?" 
date: "2004/04/25 01:19:33" 
title: "what is the intifada?" 
---
<p>on march 20, i was at a peace demonstration in chicago at which one of the speakers yelled "long live the intifada!", encouraging the crowd to repeat the same. today i got an email from <a href="http://gabrielgudding.blogspot.com/">gabe gudding</a>, who attended yesterday's <a href="http://www.dailyherald.com/dupage/main_story.asp?intID=3810129">demonstration against caterpillar's sale of the bulldozers israel uses to demolish palestinian homes</a>. in his account of the events, gabe mentioned that someone at the demonstration yelled* "long live the intifada". (* after i wrote this, gabe wrote to correct me: this wasn't yelled, it was on a sign.)</p><br><p>maybe the caterpillar demonstration was different than the chicago demonstration, but i got the impression in chicago that most of the crowd had no idea what "intifada" means. one young man a few yards behind me had the presence of mind to boo the chants of "long live the intifada", but most people just stood there looking a bit confused.</p><br><p>it is my opinion that the intifada is not something anyone interested in peace in the middle east should support. <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intifada">wikipedia has a good explanation of what "intifada" means</a>. at best, it can be seen as a peaceful demonstration that, against the wishes of most of its proponents, fell into the cycle of violence that has been going on between israel and palestine for too many decades. at worst, it can be seen as the palestinian half of that cycle of violence. in any case, there have been two palestinian intifadas, and palestinians have nothing to show for it.</p><br><p>so i'd like to never hear "long live the intifada" at a peace demonstration again, but if i do hear it, i hope i'll have the presence of mind to boo.</p>