---
path: "/2004/08/17/worstwebsiteever?" 
date: "2004/08/17 19:52:29" 
title: "worst website ever?" 
---
i think my health insurance provider, <a href="http://www.allegisbenefits.com/">allegis group</a>, is a serious contender for the title of "worst website ever." first, it doesn't even load with any browser other than internet explorer, instead spitting out <a href="https://www.ktbsonline.com/error.asp?netscape=Y&amp;ac">an unhelpful error message</a>: "If you need help using this Web Site, please call your dedicated service department..." there's no mention that my browser is the problem (and my browser isn't the problem, but they do javascript browser sniffing, and kick out non-IE browsers for no apparent reason), but the "netscape=Y" section of the error URL gave it away, so i tried internet explorer, and it loaded. and i clicked on the helpful "New User Help" button - one of only two links on the page. and i was <a href="https://www.ktbsonline.com/allegis/new_user_help.asp">told</a><br><blockquote>If you have never logged in to AllegisBenefits.com before, your Username and Password will both be your social security number. Simply enter your social security number without dashes in both entry boxes and then click the "Login" button.</blockquote><br>ordinarily i would point out that they could remove the dashes themselves rather than waste users' time, but they can't even make a remotely functional website, so they probably need all the help a user can give them. so i entered my social security number (noting how easy it is for anyone to get my social security number) and clicked the "Login" button, and i then got an error message, which helpfully explains "LOGIN ERROR!" with a flashing exclamation point. i tried again, and this time got the first error message "If you need help using this Web Site, please call your dedicated service department". the thought of navigating a phone system made by these people frightens me enough that i use the email option. so far no automated response, which is either a good sign (someone might actually get my message) or an indication that their email server is as useless as their website. if you were wondering what their motto is (unfortunately not "worst website ever"), they have a flash animation which covers a third of the page to tell you: "people. service. performance." i'm still waiting to experience any of those.