---
path: "/2004/02/19/worsebeforebetter" 
date: "2004/02/19 06:56:28" 
title: "worse before better" 
---
<p>a friend of mine from san francisco sent me an email, stating how proud she is of her city for making a bold stand for equality. today <a href="http://weblog.burningbird.net/fires/culture/no_other_word_works_but_great.htm">burningbird</a> writes:</p><br><blockquote>Watching the story online and on TV about Gavin Newsom's <a href="http://www.miami.com/mld/miamiherald/news/nation/7963377.htm">carefully planned</a> act of defiance against the State of California, the  weekend of gay marriages in San Francisco, the ecstatic faces of the people married -- among all the bad news lately, it is a true bright spot. </blockquote><br><p>i'm reminded of <a href="http://www.lyricsxp.com/lyrics/s/san_francisco_scott_mckenzie.html">scott mckenzie's song "san francisco"</a>:</p><br><blockquote><br><p>If you're goin' to San Francisco<br/><br>Be sure to wear some flowers in your hair<br/> <br>If you're goin' to San Francisco<br/><br>You're gonna meet some gentle people there</p><br><p>For those who come to San Francisco<br/> <br>Summertime will be a love-in there<br/><br>In the streets of San Francisco<br/><br>Gentle people with flowers in their hair<br/> <br>All across the nation<br/><br>Such a strange vibration<br/><br>People in motion<br/><br>There's a whole generation<br/> <br>With a new explanation<br/><br>People in motion, people in motion</p><br><p>For those who come to San Francisco<br/> <br>Be sure to wear some flowers in your hair<br/><br>If you come to San Francisco<br/><br>Summertime will be a love-in there</p><br></blockquote><br><p>right now, it is indeed a love-in there, and that's great and all, but i think it's important for those of us who support gay rights to recognize that it's going to get worse before it gets better. <a href="http://www.andrewsullivan.com/index.php?dish_inc=archives/2004_02_15_dish_archive.html#107704177894363024">andrew sullivan</a>, a gay conservative writer who is in favor of gay marriage, writes:</p><br><blockquote>I'm sure many of those newly married couples would also gladly go through the arrest procedure. Being thrown in jail for loving and committing to another person for life would highlight much of the injustice that now exists. The arrests would further the groundswell of empowerment that is now dawning on gay America. So bring it on. We shall overcome.</blockquote><br><p>and thus ends the love-in. it's easy enough for sullivan to say "so bring it on. we shall overcome" as he stands on the sidelines watching this culture war play out. clearly he's not going to be arrested, or even brought to court to explain why he feels he deserves to be treated like a human being, but he at least recognizes that it's going to get ugly. the tears of joy are going to turn into tears of pain, as millions of americans are bluntly told that they are not deserving of the full rights granted to the rest of us.</p><br><p>it's getting better, but it will get worse.</p>