---
path: "/2003/01/14/commentsasweblogs" 
date: "2003/01/14 22:59:05" 
title: "comments as weblogs" 
---
i was trying to figure out what exactly "backtracking" involves and if i want to spend the effort to do it, when i came across <a href="http://www.dellah.com/orient/2003/01/13/up_and_down_the_ladder.shtml">this</a>: <q>realise that the difference between a post and a comment is superficial and do away with seperating them</q>. that's exactly what my old weblog system did, before i moved from an <abbr title="Active Server Pages">ASP</abbr> system to a <abbr title="(recursive) PHP Hypertext Preprocessor">PHP</abbr> system. every weblog was a text item. the title of the item was the title of a weblog. the text of the item was the description of the weblog. each post was a child of the weblog. the title of the item was the title of the post. the text of the item was the text of the post. from there, each comment was a child of a post. any post could be read as if it were a full-fledged weblog, using a templating system that allowed any text item to be viewed in mulitple ways. it was all very flexible and "neat" and open, but i scrapped it because 1) only i was using it and 2) the templates were becoming increasingly complex in order to handle the wide variety of ways in which one (i.e. i) might want to associate various text items. in short, i found the system was slowly evolving into a poorly-designed operating system complete with a poorly-designed markup/programming language.<br>but i think i'm going to recreate this old system to some degree when i set up a commenting system here. i'll scrap the most taxing/useless parts of the system: templates, user/group permissions, etc. but i'll keep the comments as weblogs system. so a comment will be a child of an individual post, and will share the same structure. except comments will be <a href="http://thinktank.rootnode.com/Wiki/StructuredText">structured text</a>, or a variant thereof that enforces a certain markup of comments. this time i'll try to stay away from creating an operating system, and stick with <abbr title="(recursive) PHP Hypertext Preprocessor">PHP</abbr> as my programming language. coming soon...