---
path: "/2003/05/12/howinnovationgoes" 
date: "2003/05/12 22:04:24" 
title: "how innovation goes" 
---
<p>after reading a <a href="http://weblog.delacour.net/archives/000905.html">number</a> of <a href="http://weblog.burningbird.net/fires/001157.htm">weblogs</a> suggesting that william hannas is an idiot, i wanted to find out exactly what he said that was so idiotic. unfortunately, the article that sparked the fire is "temporarily unavailable". the closest i could come to hannas' point was <a href="http://www.emptybottle.org/glass/2003/05/ignorance_bought_and_paid_for.php">this post by one wonderchicken</a>, which says that the new york times says that hannas says: <q>Asian science has suffered because the main Asian languages are written in "character-based rather than alphabetic" systems</q>. hannas is then quoted as saying we <q>now recognize that the writing systems of East Asia, including Chinese, Japanese and Korean, are "syllabaries,"</q> which is what he is then attacked for.</p><br><p>i don't get it. these two ideas, both attributed to hannas, seem to contradict each other. certainly hannas is an idiot if he thinks chinese is a phonetic written language. and he may be wrong if he says that character-based writing prevents people from thinking innovatively. i'm not sure what the direct relationship is between languages and the level of innovation in asia (or even what that level is). but having lived in japan, and working with children in taiwan, it seems to me the indirect effects of the language on the education systems certainly discourage innovative thinking.</p><br><p>this isn't as true in japan, where the pictographic writing system isn't the only way to read, but in taiwan (and china), children spend hours upon hours copying characters to learn how to write. they no only spend more time per day learning writing (and i suspect also reading), they continue to learn to write through a higher age than their english (and i suspect generally phonetic language) speaking counterparts. if nothing else, this is time that could be otherwise spent practicing creative thinking if the chinese phonetic alphabet were used more widely. now it is used only as a stepping stone toward learning how to read non-phonetic chinese characters.</p><br><p>another consideration related to the time issue is that the age of entry into writing is higher for chinese students. writing is an important means of clarifying thoughts. unfortunately, by the time chinese students have learned enough characters to write down their thoughts, they've already learned to think less creatively.</p><br><p>when i learned to write english, i did so by repeatedly running my pencil over patterns until i had physically memorized the motion of each letter. for 26 letters, that's not a huge investment in memorization-style learning. the chinese language (at least in taiwan) is taught in basically the same way. but instead of 26 characters, chinese has over 10,000. that *is* a huge investment in memorization-style learning. even if this were the only memorization chinese students did in school, their minds would be trained to memorize. but because the teachers spend so much time teaching language through memorization, it's only natural that they use similar (memorization-based) means of teaching other subjects.</p><br><p>i teach at what is probably one of the most americanized english cram schools in taiwan (if not also china), and my students still learn english mostly through memorization. why? because that's what they're good at. eight year old chinese students can memorize english almost as fast as i can. but trying to get the same students to think creatively is often a lost cause. i've heard stories about chinese graduate students who found it easier to write entire essays and memorize them before an exam rather than retain the ideas and organize them during the test. memorization not only doesn't end when language study ends; it doesn't end when students leave chinese school, or even when they leave asia.</p><br><p>maybe there's a more creative way to teach chinese writing. if not, creative thinking could certainly be encouraged more in other subjects. but right now it's not. if we're accepting the assertion that asian people don't innovate as much, the cause isn't hard to determine. people learn how to learn in the education system.</p>