---
path: "/2003/05/13/languageistheroad" 
date: "2003/05/13 10:08:13" 
title: "language is the road" 
---
one of my friends said to me the other day "culture determines language". i said "sure, but the opposite is also true", and i gave some anecdotal evidence. <a href="http://weblog.delacour.net/archives/000901.html ">jonathon delacour recently wrote about this in more depth</a>, quoting "language is the house in which we dwell." that my be true, but my friend would be quick to point out that we can always move. we can always create language to match our (desired) reality.<br>that's great, but have you ever tried to make a new word? i have, and it's no trivial task. for me, this issue always comes up in political groups i'm involved in. a peacenik group or a gay rights organization exists because its members have an idea of a world they think would be slightly better than our current reality (e.g. a world with peace, or without hate). the challenge of describing such a world can be incredibly frustrating. so often the ideas are there, but the language is not. in the end, the hours spent arguing over the merits of words like "homophobia" or "heterosexism" or "hir" mean very little. the larger culture adopts whatever language is wants without first consulting affected peoples.<br>but the larger culture generally chooses from words that were, in fact, created by a smaller group, and ultimately, an individual. so while an individual has next to no control over the culture's use of language, one can still, maybe like a parent, provide options and hope the culture chooses a good word. but coming up with a good word is very hard - much harder than moving to a new house, or even adding a room to an existing house. it's something that often takes a large group and a lot of time. it's also something that can take you somewhere new. something more like road construction. which means language is the road. i like that metaphor much better than the house. we don't sit inside language; we move through it. if it won't take us to where we want to go, we have to stop everything and make it better.