---
path: "/2003/01/14/mark_gives_up_on_semantics" 
date: "2003/01/14 09:31:58" 
title: "mark gives up on semantics" 
---
<p>it's like jesus just came back and said "you know what, this whole religion thing is a crock." <a href="http://diveintomark.org/archives/2003/01/13.html#semantic_obsolescence">mark pilgrim</a>, semantic markup poster boy, says: <q>Standards are bullshit. XHTML is a crock. The W3C is irrelevant.</q> but he really only points out one tag missing from the <abbr title="Extensible Hypertext Markup Language">XHTML</abbr> 2 specification that he can't easily work around: the &lt;cite&gt; tag. what is the &lt;cite&gt; tag? it's used to cite external sources. of course, <a href="http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-html401-19991224/struct/text.html#h-9.2.2">the cite attribute has been part of the &lt;q&gt; tag since (at least) <abbr title="Hypertext Markup Language">HTML</abbr> 4.1</a>, so this shouldn't be too much of a shock.</p><br><p>and, though it isn't quite as simple as converting all &lt;q&gt; tags to &lt;quote&gt; tags, there *is* a way to maintain the same functionality (and even increased functionality) by using cite attributes rather than tags, in combination with &lt;a&gt; tags. you can use an &lt;a&gt; tag with no href attribute, and a rel attribute of value "citation" to replace &lt;cite&gt;. better yet, you can include the href attribute (pointing to the source's top-level site), and (if you must) turn off linking via <abbr title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</abbr>. ironically, this technique seems *more* descriptive than a vague &lt;cite&gt; tag. this can be implemented by replacing all &lt;cite&gt; tags with properly-marked &lt;a&gt; tags. you can also place a cite attribute within &lt;q&gt; tags and create a descriptive connection between a quote and its source (again, better than ever). so, what's the problem here?</p>