---
path: "/2003/02/28/regex_word_search" 
date: "2003/02/28 12:37:39" 
title: "regex word search" 
---
<p>before you become familiar with regular expression syntax, it just annoys you. after you become familiar with it, you become annoyed that you can't use it more widely. for example, i'm often wanting to search for words that match some sort of pattern. most dictionary searches will only tell me "this is a word" or "this is not a word", but if i want to know which words end with "tionally", these dictionary searches are useless. <a href="http://www.onelook.com/">onelook dictionary search</a> allows you to search for patterns such as "*tionally". while this is better than most dictionary searches, it would be really nice if it supported more complicated patterns, like everything you can do with regular expressions. for example, say i wanted to find words that had only a single vowel repeated at least three times (like "banana"). with regex, this is easy: /(.*?[aeiou]){3,}/ (i haven't tested this, which means it almost certainly doesn't work.) of course, most people would look at that and wish there was an internet protocol for throwing shoes at people. but there's no reason why onelook (or someone else) couldn't implement regular expressions as an option that most people would never use. <a href="http://humanities.uchicago.edu/forms_unrest/webster.form.html">the <q>ARTFL Project</q></a> is actually closer than onelook to providing full regex word searches. but it still doesn't allow me to find words like banana.</p>