---
path: "/2003/08/03/robotsarecool" 
date: "2003/08/03 09:48:16" 
title: "robots are cool" 
---
<p>one thing that bothers me - right up there with the non-word "alls", as in "alls you have to do" - is the common belief that automation is a bad thing, or an unfortunate thing, or anything but good. it's a common idea that robots or computers are going to take our jobs, this will be the cause of huge problems throughout the world. worse than the great depression.</p><br><p><a href="http://marshallbrain.com/robotic-nation.htm">marshall brain's robotic nation essay</a> is a prime example. it concludes: <q>The arrival of humanoid robots should be a cause for celebration. With the robots doing most of the work, it should be possible for everyone to go on perpetual vacation. Instead, robots will displace millions of employees, leaving them unable to find work and therefore destitute.</q>. you can read the whole essay, but that's probably enough to give you the basic idea i'm trying to refute here. my argument goes something like this: we don't need jobs. we only need jobs today to get us things we really need, like food, shelter, and clothing. before they are able to replace us in all other jobs, robots will be able to provide us with food, shelter, and clothing, at which point the loss of jobs will not be a problem.</p><br><p>we don't need jobs. no one will die from lack of employment. some of us enjoy working. some of us don't. there's no way for anyone to prevent anyone else from working. if mcdonalds fires everyone and replaces them with robots, that doesn't prevent you from starting your own restaurant and serving food to people. if you want to work, you'll always be able to work. if you don't want to work, unemployment isn't a problem.</p><br><p>people complain about unemployment, but lack of work isn't what really bothers anyone. it's lack of money from work. that's why the US government is sending out checks to millions of americans rather than giving everyone a job. people don't care about being unemployed if they have money.</p><br><p>and people don't really care about money. go give a homeless american a big pile of euro if you don't believe me. money only has value if we can spend it on things we really do care about. these things are different for everyone, but one common item of concern is food. many people don't realize that <a href="http://www.consumeralert.org/issues/subsidy/farmbr.htm">the US government has paid american farmers to not grow food</a>. they do this because if too much of a given food is grown, the supply becomes so high that the price drops very low. extremely low prices seem like a good thing, but has some negative consequences in the long run, such as destroying the entire market for a particular crop by removing profit motivation from farmers.</p><br><p>in a future world in which robots are doing most or all of the farming, compensation of suppliers is no longer an important factor (robots don't get paid), and the food economy becomes entirely driven by demand. a government would have no reason to not provide a welfare net of food, at least, for all citizens, as the cost would be minimal and the demand would be high. the same is true of other common needs, like shelter and clothing, though less so than of food.</p><br><p>so what will all these unemployed people do? whatever they want, but there is good reason to believe it will be less manual labor and more intellectual work. throughout history the primary sector of work has shifted from agriculture to industry to service. (see <a href="http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0130835781/"><cite>continuity and change in world politics</cite></a>) that's a steady shift over time away from manual labor and toward intellectual labor. this isn't a shift in job interests, but an increase in automation that allows more people to do easier jobs. that's right - robots.</p><br><p>automation will significantly change the structure of our economy, and those unable to change with the times, like always, we be hurt in the process. but this is not a new phenomenon. this economic shift has been taking place since the dawn of civilization. we need only compare our modern lives with those of people a few hundred years ago to determine whether automation is generally positive or negative. i believe it's positive, and thus, robots are cool.</p>