---
path: "/2003/09/01/separationofchurchandcommerce" 
date: "2003/09/01 21:30:34" 
title: "separation of church and commerce" 
---
the discussion of religious fundamentalism continues over on <a href="http://akma.disseminary.org/archives/000686.html">akma's weblog</a>, and as i <a href="http://weblog.randomchaos.com/index.php?date=2003-08-31&amp;title=japanese+religious+intolerance+and+secular+tolerance">expected</a>, the christians aren't converting to shinto just yet. this whole conversation thread was prompted by some separation of church and state issues. now i'd like to talk about separation of church and commerce.<br>yesterday i went to my mother's church service, where i watched a light rock concert and part of a hollywood movie. and there were some bible verses in there somewhere as well, but i honestly don't remember that part. the last church i visited with my mother had a coffee shop in the lobby. today, i see <a href="http://abcnews.go.com/sections/living/US/christianpopculture030826.html">an article from abc news about a new cosmo-style bible</a>:<br><blockquote>"People want to lead integrated lives," says Mahan [a professor at the Iliff School of Theology]. "So their entertainment life, their political life and their work life are integrated with their life of faith."<br /><br>...<br /><br>Revolve and similar efforts typically emphasize aspects of Christianity that might appeal to teenagers' attitudes.  They describe Jesus as a radical who was not afraid to challenge mainstream society. </blockquote><br>the irony here is that the cosmo-bible and screening hollywood movies in church is in no way a challenge to mainstream society. it's an attempt to increase the popularity of christianity among youth by *imitating* mainstream society. as someone raised in the christian church, this strikes me as a sign the church is failing miserably. there is no shortage of engaging content in the new testament. the problem is most of that content is a challenge to the mainstream ethics of consumption that the church has too often adopted. youth are disinterested because they don't hear the interesting parts of the biblical story in church. no one is seriously suggesting to american christians that they should love their enemies, give up their privilege, or challenge religious authorities. this is the exciting stuff in the bible, and it's stuff that young people would be interested in.<br>instead the church is mixing commercialism with faith. perhaps this will provide a bridge away from commercialism and toward faith, but i suspect the bridge will lead the other way. if youth are engaged in religion based on eye candy rather than substance of faith, they will leave as soon as the newest eye candy is found elsewhere. people do want to lead integrated lives, but the church should be careful that these lives are integrated with a common base of faith rather than a common base of glossy covers.