---
path: "/2003/08/13/social_traffic_jams" 
date: "2003/08/13 22:12:29" 
title: "social traffic jams" 
---
<p>i spent much of last weekend on the interstate around chicago. specifically, on a stretch of about two miles, i spent far too long. this gave me time to reflect about some of what i've been reading in weblogging circles these days. <a href="http://info.astrian.net/jargon/terms/f/flame.html">flaming</a> isn't a new phenomenon, but it seems to have moved closer to the fore since the <a href="http://www.intertwingly.net/wiki/pie/FrontPage">the project to build a new syndication format</a> began. all of the more famous webloggers have strong opinions regarding this project, for obvious reasons. and that passion has made it clear, in several instances i won't link to, that too many don't have a conscious strategy when responding to flames.</p><br><p>yesterday <a href="http://weblog.burningbird.net/fires/001480.htm">burning bird discussed the same topic in a post titled "fight or flight"</a>, which she concluded: <q>I've thought long about the discussion I was apart of, earlier this week, and one thing that I realized from it is that flight is not an option for me</q>. that was perhaps a foregone conclusion given the false dichotomy of the title. personally, i like to think people are intelligent enough that we can come up with better approaches to our problems than frogs can.</p><br><p>every time i'm in a traffic jam, i remember <a href="http://www.amasci.com/amateur/traffic/traffic1.html">an article i read five years ago</a> about traffic jams. in it, william beaty used wave physics to come to a zen-like conclusion: <q>A single solitary driver, if they stop "competing" and instead adopt some unusual driving habits, can actually wipe away some of the frustrating traffic patterns on a highway.</q> the idea is that while traffic jams generally have an inciting incident, such as an accident, they only continue after that point because of anti-social behavior. "stop energy" might be a good name for this behavior. perhaps it's just that i was simultaneously thinking of the two topics, but while waiting in the traffic jam, i was struck by the similarities between traffic jams and flaming.</p><br><p>because of the nature of beaty's solution to traffic jams, anyone practicing his suggestions won't see the results. this uncertainty, and the desire <q>to punish the idiots who will jump into any little space</q> make improving traffic a largely faith-based action. still, it's one i personally try to practice because it makes sense to me, and it gives me something to think about while i wait.</p><br><p>waiting, the solution to both traffic jams and flaming, is hard to practice. particularly on the internet, where life seems to have a faster pace (though, of course, the people living it still function at the same speed), it's hard to let an idea about which one cares passionately exist without comment. i remember when <a href="http://weblognetwork.mindplex.org/2003/08/04.html#a3456">john robb wrote of a project of mine, <q>this feed sucks</q></a>. my immediate reaction was to post a response in my own weblog. but then i read the rest of the sentence. and i can tell you now, i'm glad i waited. this is as close as i have come to being involved in a flame war. as a result, what i say here may carry less authority, but just like the traffic jam solution, it makes sense to me.</p><br><p>waiting isn't going to work for everyone in all cases, but i think it will decrease "stop energy" more effectively than direct response. the two practices are opposite ends of a long spectrum of solutions. in an article in response to what might be called "flames against buddhist monks", <a href="http://www.abhayagiri.org/fm/v5n3/essay_amaro.htm">ajahn amaro</a> writes: <q>The Buddha was asked a lot of questions in his time, and he once said there are four ways to respond to a question. The first way is to give a straight answer. The second is to ask a counter question. The third is to rephrase the question. The fourth is to remain silent.</q> i think too many webloggers have been relying solely upon the first way. i hope we can give some consideration to the other ways before weblogs start to look any more like chicago's highways.</p>