---
path: "/2003/10/29/the_mass_amateurisation_of_ads" 
date: "2003/10/29 08:15:38" 
title: "the mass amateurisation of ads" 
---
<p>i've had this idea for a while now, and i've come to terms with the reality that i'll likely never be in a position to implement it, so i'm just going to talk about it here, and maybe someone else will put it together. the idea is for a website that allows for advertisments to be created by anyone.</p><br><p>the website is very simple. i have an idea for an ad. i go to the website, type up my idea, and give it a price. maybe i'd like $2, or maybe i think it's a really great idea, and i'd like $2000 for it. someone else goes to the website and reads my idea. they think "what a great idea! i could make that" and then they do. they send the ad to the website along with a price. after the ad has been approved, anyone can go to the website and view the ad. but the ad can't be (legally) published elsewhere unless someone pays the fees for both the idea and the production, plus a small standard fee to pay for the website costs.</p><br><p><a href="http://www.bushin30seconds.org/">moveon's new bush in 30 seconds</a> website is close to what i had in mind, but it's far more specific, both in subject matter and in medium. both subject matter and medium would ideally be open. moveon also requires the idea for an ad and the production of an ad to come to the same place, but it seems to me that people with no production skill can have great ideas for ads. moveon's prize is <q>a videotape of the ad</q>. wouldn't the winner already have that? i think money is a better prize.</p><br><p>moveon's site is a step in the right direction. i just think someone else needs to make the idea into a general purpose website. most ads are terrible, and i think this website would help change that while opening up the market to everyone.</p>