---
path: "/2003/04/08/thoughtsongoodness" 
date: "2003/04/08 20:54:20" 
title: "thoughts on goodness" 
---
<p>gandhi wrote <q>Non-violence is a quality of the heart. Whether there is violence or non-violence in our actions can be judged only by reference to the spirit behind them.</q> i think that statement is true of nonviolence and violence, but also of good and bad. i think the intent of our actions, rather than the results, determine their goodness. of course, the two are closely related, but the intent we know very well, and the results we often don't. i think we can accurately judge our own goodness, though we don't always do so. and conversely we can not accurately judge others' goodness, though we can still make reasonable estimates based on observation.</p><br><p>gandhi also wrote <q>I know there is a flaw in this reply. One may commit violence as much as one chooses and then, deceiving oneself and the world, justify one's actions with the plea of their being unavoidable.</q> this was presumably an attempt to prevent gandhi's words from being used to validate violence. but i don't think it's possible to really deceive oneself, so i don't see any need for gandhi's disclaimer here. i adopt this belief from sartre, who labels an attemp to deceive onself "bad faith.</p><br><p><a href="http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/billramey/sartre.htm">ernest brown</a> summarizes sartre: <q>What is the structure of bad faith? Essentially, it consists of the individual consciousness appropriating a false notion of self. Sartre very carefully points out that bad faith is not a state of consciousness that is imposed from without, but a willing act of accepting a situation as fact on what the person knows is objectively faulty evidence.</q></p><br><p>all of that might suggest that ignorance is the surest road to goodness. after all, if you don't know you're doing bad, following the above reasoning, you're not really doing bad. and i think this is true enough. you can easily make good decisions when you're ignorant. but your choice to be ignorant was still a bad one, perhaps the worst.</p>