---
path: "/2003/10/26/try_an_online_course" 
date: "2003/10/26 10:07:03" 
title: "try an online course" 
---
<p>dress up doll magnets are fun, but the simpsons set rocks.</p> <br><br><p>mutant forms of lisa and bart simpson frame the progress report on my refrigerator. marge's extra eyeballs hold up the top corners. the bottom is supported by homer's pants. it's an "A." yes, i'm bragging. bear with me, please, as i'm unable to lord it over the rest of my class.</p><br><br><p>i have no contact with classmates because, after completing my bachelors the traditional way at <a href="http://titan.iwu.edu/home/home.php" title="iwu homepage">illinois wesleyan university,</a> i thought i'd try an online course through <a href="http://www.hcc-online.org" title="hcc-online homepage">heartland community college.</a></p><br><br><p>the course is "growth and development of the young child," the most basic child development class at hcc.</p><br><br><p>the course description "completely online" wasn't fully accurate; i do have to venture up the road to hcc's main campus to take exams.</p><br> <br><p>i'd say i enjoy the class overall, however. besides the interesting content, the format of the class could hardly be more time efficient.</p>  <br><br><p>the only real drawback of this course: i'm lonely for class discussions and opportunities to force my opinion on my classmates. but this is mosly outweighed by the convenience of attending class from the comfort of my recliner.</p><br><br><p>plus, i make up for it by annoying my loved ones by turning every discussion around me into a debate about issues of child development.</p><br>