---
path: "/2003/08/04/usingweblogstoimprovejapanese" 
date: "2003/08/04 08:45:41" 
title: "using weblogs to improve japanese" 
---
i've decided that weblogs are ideal for learning japanese. and i'm not talking about <a href="http://weblog.randomchaos.com/japanese.php">daily japanese leasons</a> (although those are also good). i'm talking about japanese weblogs. for someone who has already gone through a good number of textbooks on japanese, japanese reading materials are an important step toward fluency. i've been slowly wading my way through a japanese novel for a few months now, only to discover in the last few days that my time would have been better spent reading weblogs, for a few reasons.<br>when i come to a word i don't know in a japanese book, i can't just look up the word, because there is no real alphabetical order for kanji. i have to find the character by some combination of stroke counting and radicals. this takes some time. when reading a weblog, i can just copy and paste the japanese into my dictionary, removing the whole process of looking up kanji. this is true of websites in general, but weblogs have other advantages.<br>one problem with the world of weblogs is that it's hard to find new and interesting content because the same things get pointed to by everyone. probably about 95% of the readers are reading about 5% of the writers. when learning a foreign language, this problem becomes a benefit. i wake up in the morning and read all my english language weblogs. then when i go to read my japanese weblogs, chances are pretty good that i'll find them pointing to the same material i've already read in english, which makes translating that much easier.<br>many weblogs also tend to break up text into small chunks, a few sentences or a paragraph that i can sit down and translate in a few minutes. when reading a japanese book, or even online news, i have to invest a significant chunk of time before i can complete a section of text. if you're learning intermediate japanese, or any other language for that matter, i highly recommend you subscribe to a few weblogs. i'm very glad i did.