---
path: "/2003/09/07/why_japan_welcomed_america_(and_iraq_did_not)" 
date: "2003/09/07 07:17:27" 
title: "why japan welcomed america (and iraq did not)" 
---
<p>rumsfeld's comments, quoted today by <a href="http://asia.reuters.com/newsArticle.jhtml?type=worldNews&amp;storyID=3398916">reuters</a>:</p><br><blockquote>Instead of pointing fingers at the security forces of the coalition because there are acts of violence taking place against Iraqi people in this country, it's important for the  Iraqi people to step up and take responsibility.</blockquote><br><p>sound as if he really believed that iraqis would unanimously welcome the american occupation. the only time in history an occupied country has ever welcomed america was the american occupation of japan following the second world war. it didn't take a lot of intelligence to at least strongly suspect that iraq wouldn't be like japan. but why? what made japan so unique? a group of students of the american occupation of japan answered this question indirectly by comparing japan to iraq back in january in a document titled <cite><a href="http://annmariabell.com/alternate/blog/appeal.html">U.S. PLANS FOR WAR AND OCCUPATION IN IRAQ ARE A HISTORICAL MISTAKE</a></cite>. a sample:</p><br><blockquote>The U.S.-led occupation of Japan (1945-52) derived its legitimacy from a broad Allied consensus ...   The Allied army of occupation relied on a staff composed largely of American civilian administrators who induced democratic reform by working indirectly through already existing governmental institutions ...   Japan's Asian neighbors, victims of Japanese wartime aggression, supported the Allied occupation ... Japan possessed few natural resources ... U.S. policy planning for postwar Japan began three years before the defeat</blockquote><br><p>none of these factors existed in iraq, nor are they likely to exist ever again anywhere. perhaps it's time we stop occupying countries altogether.</p>