---
path: "/2006/08/26/AspirationsStatedasFact" 
date: "2006/08/26 21:00:13" 
title: "Aspirations Stated as Fact" 
---
Dave Rogers <a href="http://homepage.mac.com/dave_rogers/GHD08-06.html#note_2972">continues </a>his effort at <q>debunking the vacuous, though emotionally appealing, assertions</q> as he puts it. And he even provides a better rebuttal to himself than I think anyone else could have:<br><blockquote>Now, some sage will come along and point out something like, "all men are created equal," and suggest that it is also an emotionally appealing formulation that has no basis in reality. And despite its presence in the Declaration of Independence, we know the signers didn't, in fact, regard all men as being created "equal," and pretty much ignored women entirely. But, the virtue would supposedly be that it helped to create "a new world," where men were more equal than in the old one. A "flatter" one, if you will. But again, there were more processes at work in that period in history than are captured in that one document, and there was, and remains, plenty of suffering to come in the effort to live up to the notion that "all men are created equal." It doesn't come about because someone put it down on paper, nor is it necessary, but it helps certain other processes gain supporters and adherents. Marketing, in other words.</blockquote><br>The first thought that came to my mind was Phil Ochs' song, also the title of his posthumous greatest hits album, <cite>The War is Over</cite>. I wasn't alive when the song was written during the American invasion of Vietnam, but I know the war was not actually over, and I always wondered what kind of effect that had on the people, stating aspiration as fact. Surely the phrase "all men are created equal" has changed how we think about equality in America, and I think probably for the better.<br>So while <q>the opportunity that anybody has to enjoy the same, or more. That's what's great about blogging</q> doesn't appear to be helping anyone much, I don't think all aspirations stated as fact are harmful. I'm not sure where the distinction is, but here's a rough guess at what it might be:<br>The signatories to the Declaration of Independence had something at stake (land claims) in bringing reality closer to their stated aspirations. The cheerleaders of weblogging, on the other hand, have something at stake (attention claims) in *preventing* reality from matching their stated aspirations. Today, there's still no scarcity of land in America, but there is a scarcity of attention on the web.<br>That's my theory today anyway.