---
path: "/2006/05/26/ChangesareComing" 
date: "2006/05/26 14:22:05" 
title: "Changes are Coming" 
---
<p>I have a rough plan to split this website, randomchaos.com into three different sites. A while back I bought typewriting.org, and I think I'll put my weblog, music, and other types of writings there. It will look simple and artsy like <a href="http://oblivio.com/">Oblivio</a> or <a href="http://ezrakilty.net/ezlog/">Letters to an Unknown Audience</a>. Surely muted earth tones will improve my writing. I'll probably put the music at music.typewriting.org, write more about it, and have comments on it. I expect I'll stop hosting music for other people. The other people have never seemed very interested in my hosting their music. I think maybe I had a fantasy of starting a record label or something, but that's clearly not going to happen.</p><br><p>Today I bought MakeDataMakeSense.com, which I think is a nice description of what I like to do with technology. I plan to move my more tech-oriented projects there. The microformat aggregator, the graphing widget, the Greasemonkey scripts, the regular expression debugger, it all tries to make data make sense. So that site will focus on those projects. It will look like a software company's website, maybe <a href="http://panic.com/">Panic</a> or <a href="http://ranchero.com/">Ranchero</a>, but still free. Surely fancy icons will improve my software.</p><br><p>With everything else moved to the other two sites, I'll make randomchaos.com a games site. It will include fastr and other games I've been playing with and need to finish. It will look like <a href="http://www.kurnik.org/">kurnik</a> or <a href="http://games.yahoo.com/">Yahoo games</a>. Surely extensive white space will improve my games.</p><br><p>There are random projects throughout randomchaos right now that don't clearly belong on any of the three sites: typewriting.org, MakeDataMakeSense.com, or a new games-focused randomchaos.com. The photos? I'll either just stop keeping a separate photo gallery, or write more about photos and put it on photo.typewriting.org. The computer-generated poetry? That could probably fit in on either typewriting.org or MakeDataMakeSense.com. I'll pick one. Anything I can't find a home for is probably not worth keeping.</p><br><p>I expect one such thing will be the source code viewer. I don't think I'm going to make any of these three sites open source, though I will continue to make specific projects open source. I've been running randomchaos.com as an open source website for a few years now, and I think it's been a wasted effort. No one has suggested a single improvement on any of the code I've written. And the only people who have actually used the code elsewhere have first asked me if they could despite the license clearly granting them this permission. If I'm going to be interacting with people using my code, I might as well just email them the files and not have to worry about maintaining an automated open-source website system that no one ever uses.</p><br><p>I'll post notes and redirect everything as I move or remove it, but that's my plan so far: out with the old, split up the new, stop trying to boil the ocean, and drink more tea.</p>