---
path: "/2006/06/19/Email_Obfuscation_Helps_Spammers" 
date: "2006/06/19 16:08:22" 
title: "Email Obfuscation Helps Spammers" 
---
<p>Some people think email obfuscation is a good way to fight spam, that it's somehow more difficult for spammers to understand "account at domain dot com" or "account&amp;64;domain.com" than "account@domain.com". These people are wrong. They will often readily admit that they don't think email obfuscation will stop *all* spam, but it still makes them feel like they're doing something in the war on <span style="text-decoration: line-through;">drugs</span> <span style="text-decoration: line-through;">terrorism</span> spam. Here's what they're doing: in addition to making email more difficult for legitimate uses, they're actually making it <strong>easier for spammers</strong>.</p><br><p><a href="http://www.google.com/search?q=%22*+at+*+dot+com%22">Google returns 27 million results for "* at * dot com"</a>. That's 27 million email addresses waiting to be spammed. Google doesn't allow you to search for the "@" sign, so that's 27 million email addresses that *wouldn't be available on Google if they were not obfuscated*. Email obfuscation not only doesn't hurt spammers &#8212; it actually helps them. Where it doesn't make it easier, it acts as a placebo, making people feel more comfortable and complacent living in a world of spam. Like everything else, if you don't want your email address publicly-available, don't put it on the public web. But if we want to be able to publish email addresses on the web, we can't continue this half-hearted war on spam, hiding under our beds of obfuscation and hoping they won't find us.</p>