---
path: "/2006/11/12/LessonsFromMyGrandfathers" 
date: "2006/11/12 16:06:17" 
title: "Lessons From My Grandfathers" 
---
A while back I was thinking about my grandfathers. I believe I was listening to some radio program in which a man was sharing a memory of his grandfather. Both of my grandfathers are dead, and I remember very little about them. I *know* a lot more about them than I actually *remember*, from stories others have told me or pictures I've seen. But I think what I remember is more interesting. I remember two things about both of my grandfathers.<br>My mother's father was Charles Weaver. The first thing I remember about him is puzzles. We did puzzles together. Big puzzles with small pieces. They took a long time, and being a kid, I did very little of the work. Usually the puzzles were completed by my grandfather late one night as I slept. But he'd always leave out one piece, so when I woke in the morning, I had that satisfaction of completing the puzzle, even though I didn't do the work. So my grandfather Weaver taught me to be lazy.<br>The second thing I remember is that he wouldn't repeat himself. He would say something when I wasn't listening, and I would say "what?" and he just wouldn't respond. I think he explained this once as an attempt to encourage listening. Or maybe that was just how I thought of it &#8212; I'm not sure. Either way, this taught me not to let my principles turn me into a jerk, a lesson I apply less consistantly than laziness.<br>My father's father was Cornelius Reynen. He was a minister, but I don't remember him ministering in any professional capacity. I think maybe he had retired by the time I was born. I do remember two things about him that revolved around his ministry. The first was the post-dinner Bible readings at his house. My brothers and I were expected to sit around the table after the meal while he read to us from the Bible.<br>I don't think it was even the interesting stories either &#8212; just whatever happened to come next. Sometimes he would ask us questions at the end to make sure we were paying attention. It was a horrible experience for a child. But from it, I learned how to never be bored, by thinking.<br>My second memory of this grandfather was <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rummikub">Rummikub</a>, which my family would play with him in the evening. If you're not familiar with Rummikub, it's almost exactly like Rummy, only with tiles instead of cards. You might ask: why would anyone bother with tiles instead of cards? Well, because playing cards are evil, naturally.<br>Granted, there are some slight differences between Rummy and Rummikub that make playing with tiles a little easier. But Cornelius, my grandfather, wasn't interested in those differences, as far as I could tell. He was interested in avoiding cards because he was raised with and maintained the idea that playing cards are evil. So from playing Rummikub I learned to keep faith bounded by reason.<br>That's it. That's all I remember. I wish there were more, but given the small amount of time I spent with my grandfathers, I think these are pretty good lessons to take away. They've served me well so far. When I die some day, I hope the lessons *I* unintentionally pass down will be so useful.