---
path: "/2006/04/02/Listening_for_Meaning" 
date: "2006/04/02 13:34:36" 
title: "Listening for Meaning" 
---
<p><cite><a href="http://homepage.mac.com/dave_rogers/GHD04-06.html#note_2723">Dave Rogers</a></cite> wrote:</p><br><blockquote><p>But here's the thing, I kind of knew all this stuff before, it didn't really *matter*, did it? I think you could reasonably say I *believed* it, don't you think? I didn't *disbelieve* it. But it didn't *matter*, because even though I knew it and believed it, I still couldn't do the pose. If we say something doesn't *matter*, that's another way of saying it's *meaningless*, is it not? Look at a fixed point, focus on your center, that's just information. Believe it, disbelieve it, it's just information. It only *mattered* when I *did* it. It only mattered when I *lived* it.</p></blockquote><br><p>After reading my <a href="http://typewriting.org/2006/03/18/Reminder%3A_You_Will_Die/">Reminder: You Will Die</a> post, my dad asked me something like "so if death helps you remember what's important in life, what's important in life?" I knew what I thought, but had trouble putting it into words. I think I said something like "living is important," which I think probably sounds like a hand-wavy zen statement after talking about the importance of death. I like how Dave phrases it, but even his "bring meaning to life" seems a bit vague.</p><br><p>And maybe a little wrong, too. I think life already *has* meaning &#8212; we just have to *recognize* it. It's like the difference between hearing to a song, and listening to a song. Anyone can hear whether life has a pleasant melody and go humming along to "You are My Sunshine," but you have to listen to catch the meaning. I'm sure "we have to listen for the meaning of life" sounds really trite, but I think that's because listening sounds so much easier than it is. I'd explain how to listen, but I'm not very good at it myself.</p><br><p>I think listening for meaning is what people are generally doing when they pray or meditate, but I'm hesitant to suggest anyone do those things. I've had too many people ask me if I pray when it's obvious they don't. They're asking if I sit with my hands folded and recite the same meaningless words they do. In that sense, I quit praying several years ago. And I've had the same experience with meditation. Though it does seem to be more difficult, I've encountered enough meditation evangelists &#8212; certain that if I only go to their meditation class with them, all my problems will be solved &#8212; to believe it's possible to meditate without listening.</p><br><p>And then I've met people who neither pray nor meditate, but are clearly practiced in listening for meaning in life. Some find it in music, some in words, some in photos, some in other people, some in themselves. We're not at all short on places to find meaning in life. We just need to listen for it.</p>