---
path: "/2006/06/25/MyFirstSoloMusicGig" 
date: "2006/06/25 19:57:46" 
title: "My First Solo Music Gig" 
---
<p>A couple weeks ago I responded to <a href="http://desmoines.craigslist.org/muc/170812179.html">an ad on Craigslist</a> seeking <q>local musicians for Happy hour or late night set Monday - Thursday &#8230; acoustic guitarists or pianists to play low key jazz, blues, alternative pop for a three hour set.</q> I am both an acoustic guitarist and a pianist. I responded thinking I could easily play low key blues piano for three hours some weeknight. I sent some MP3s of me playing guitar, because I don't have any of me playing piano. And I was offered a spot on July 7, a Friday night, 9pm-12am.</p><br><p>I accepted the offer, but there are a few problem with it. First, they don't have a piano at the Continental Lounge. I don't know why they were advertising for pianists when they don't have a piano. Did they think someone was going to bring in a piano? I have a keyboard, but it doesn't sound enough like a piano that I can comfortably play low-key blues on it. So I think I'll play guitar.</p><br><p>But the second problem is that I'm not sure that I have three hours worth of low-key guitar music. A lot of the songs I know involve yelling. I haven't even been to the Continental Lounge before, so I have no idea what the atmosphere is, or if yelling might be inappropriate. The only other solo musician I know, JJ, suggested I play instrumental guitar music, which I'll have to do to keep my voice during a three hour run, but I don't normally play instrumental guitar music, so we'll see how that goes.</p><br><p>The third problem is that it's not Monday - Thursday, as the ad said. It's Friday night. People ignore musicians Monday - Thurday, but they pay attention Friday night. I'm not sure I want people paying attention to my first show as a solo musician.</p><br><p>Basically, I have no idea what to expect right now, but I'm going to do it anyway. Even if it turns out to be a bad experience, it should be good experience. So if you'd like to hear what <a href="http://music.randomchaos.com/">my music</a> sounds like live, you'll be able to do so &#8212; in one form or another &#8212; at <span class="vcard"><span class="org fn">the Continental Lounge</span> (<a class="adr" href="http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&amp;hl=en&amp;q=428+E.+Locust+St.+Des+Moines,+IA&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;om=1"><span class="street-addres">428 E. Locust St.</span>, <span class="locality">Des Moines</span>, <abbr class="region" title="Iowa">IA</abbr></a>)</span> on July 7 9pm-12am.</p>