---
path: "/2006/01/03/PartyVoting" 
date: "2006/01/03 08:59:33" 
title: "Party Voting" 
---
<a href="http://homepage.mac.com/dave_rogers/GHD01-06.html#note_2543">Dave Rogers writes</a>:<br><blockquote>And let's return to this romantic notion of "subverting hierarchy." Where did that come from? It sounds like a good thing, right? Being "subversive" sounds kind of edgy and cool. The hierarchy is the stale, old "establishment." Hyperlinks "stick it to the man," I guess. Except subverting hierarchy is merely a form of competition, and competition determines its success or failure through measuring changes in rank in a hierarchy. How else can you tell if you're being "subversive" unless you're paying attention to rank? I mean it's implicit in the whole idea!</blockquote><br>Good point. This is why I'm wary of Green Party enthusiasts. It's easy for the Green Party to push good ideas from the outside, but I have little faith that they would continue to do so were they to achieve any real control of the government. I watch as the Green Party gains acceptance in America, and I see the candidates quietly morph from people with *ideas* to push to people with *themselves* to push.<br>The Green Party *is* pushing <a href="http://www.gp.org/tenkey.shtml">ideas I like</a>, but the success of those ideas is tied to the success of candidates, and I don't trust those candidates to hold to their principles once in power any more than I trust Democrats or Republicans to do so. Power breeds corruption; Green Party power breeds Green Party corruption.<br>This mistrust won't prevent me from voting Green on occasion. If I  only voted for politicians I trusted, I wouldn't vote at all. But don't feed me this line about voting *only* for Green Party candidates because any other vote will be an acceptance of the status quo. The status quo in American politics is blind party allegiance, even when <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Whig_Party_%28United_States%29">the parties change</a>.