---
path: "/2006/02/12/SharedMythology" 
date: "2006/02/12 13:31:41" 
title: "Shared Mythology" 
---
Last week, Shelley Powers wrote about web browsers in terms of "<a href="http://weblog.burningbird.net/2006/02/02/a-story-of-cane-and-able-and-the-browser-that-rode-chariots/">Cane and Able</a>," which was strikingly similar to the old tale of Cain and Abel. Today Danny Ayers wrote about the upper- and lower-case semantic webs in terms of the <a href="http://dannyayers.com/archives/2006/02/12/out-of-eden/">Garden of Eden</a>, and added a disclaimer at the end <q>...if anyone feels uncomfortable with my use of Judaic mythology here...</q><br>In both cases, I think discussing technology in terms of a shared mythology makes for much more interesting &#8212; and thus easier &#8212; reading. It's too bad we don't have more shared mythology from which to draw. Certainly we have more mythology than we ever have before, but it's less and less *shared*. I can discuss complex issues in terms of Battlestar Galactica, but how many people will understand the references? How many people even understand the Biblical references today?<br>I know many people who are worried about the loss of "morals" (which more often than not means "the right to be comfortable among homogeneous people" &#8212; but that's another post) in society, but I think more troubling is the loss of shared stories. Even if someone were able to write a modern epic, commonly accessible by a wide variety of cultures throughout the world, I think there's a modern intolerance for believable fiction that would kill the story before it spread.<br>In the past, we could weave a lie in with the truth, and make a new truth from it. I think that's how most religions have begun. But I'm not sure we can do that today.