---
path: "/2006/02/11/TexasHold'emScrabble" 
date: "2006/02/11 20:06:22" 
title: "Texas Hold'em Scrabble" 
---
A couple weeks back, Jessica and I had some people over, and half the people played poker, while the other half played Scrabble. <a href="http://www.ianleckie.com/blog/">Ian</a> and I were talking about this later and came up with the idea of mixing the two games. Jessica and I just tried out this idea, and found it quite fun, possibly even more fun than both poker and Scrabble. So if you like both games, you may want to try combining them.<br>A quick web search found that there's already a similar game for mobile phones called <a href="http://www.gamespot.com/mobile/puzzle/wordkingpoker/review.html">WordKing Poker</a>. That games has various rules, but it's all human vs. computer, which I don't think would be very fun. Here's the game we played:<br>It's basically like Texas Hold'em, replacing playing cards with Scrabble tiles, best word wins. After ante, each player draws two tiles. Then there's a round of betting. Then three tiles are laid on the table, face up. Then betting, then another tile on the table, then betting, then another tile, and a final round of betting.<br>Words can be from one to seven letters long, and must include at least one letter from the player's hand. Points from each letter are added to bonuses for long words. We ended up with two points for a six-letter word, and eight for a seven-letter word.<br>We only played for about a half hour, so I suspect the rules could use some more tweaking, but it was a lot of fun. And I suspect it would be even more fun with more players. I might actually make a web version if I ever get done fixing bugs with fastr.