---
path: "/2006/11/24/ThanksgivingDay" 
date: "2006/11/24 05:20:30" 
title: "Thanksgiving Day" 
---
<p>Yesterday I was listening to Dave Zobl's "Thanksgiving Day" and thinking it would be nice to share it on the holiday. But then I thought it was probably not licensed for that kind of distribution (I couldn't find anything to say for sure). Then I thought "well, all those kids over at YouTube seem to get away with that by putting song in video, so it would be more pain to extract it than it would be worth.</p><br><p>So I made a video of the song with images from Flickr licensed under Creative Commons attribution. But when I went to upload it to YouTube, it never finished. While I was waiting for it to finish, I decided I don't really want to start uploading videos to YouTube anyway. I have plenty of space on my own hosting accounts, so why give someone else control over my content? Sure the social aspect of YouTube is appealing, but I wasn't really sure how to go about that, and it didn't upload anyway.</p><br><p>So I was finally able to upload it here this morning, and here's the video I made. I hope you enjoy it and <a href="http://www.zobl.com/">get some more Dave Zobl music</a> as a result:</p><br><p id="thanksgiving-day-flv">This video requires Flash Player, which <a href="http://www.macromedia.com/go/getflashplayer">you can download free</a>.</p><br><script type="text/javascript"><br>	var FO = { 	movie:"/video/flvplayer.swf",width:"480",height:"360",majorversion:"7",build:"0",bgcolor:"#FFFFFF",flashvars:"file=/video/thanksgiving_day.flv" };<br>	UFO.create(FO, "thanksgiving-day-flv");<br></script><br><p><strong>Note:</strong> Oops. Turns out his name is Zobl, not Zobi as I included in the video and this description. I've corrected the description, but I'm not going to re-render and re-convert the video right today. I found his website, and he has two songs for free download, so I'm assuming he'd be okay with this kind of re-use of his music.</p>