---
path: "/2006/09/07/TheLimitsofEthanol" 
date: "2006/09/07 19:07:38" 
title: "The Limits of Ethanol" 
---
<p>Because I live in Iowa and work at an agency that does advertising for various ethanol-related organizations, I often find myself in conversations about ethanol. Ethanol is an exciting prospect for a sustainable fuel source, but most people I talk to know this already, so I generally spend most of these conversations pointing out potential problems with ethanol.</p><br><p>We tend to overlook potential problems when evaluating <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dot-com_bubble">something new that promises to solve existing problems</a>, and I get paid to promote ethanol, so I want to add some balance to my own small impact and these discussions by pointing out problems, e.g. ethanol is not polution-free, not all cars can run on ethanol-heavy fuel, and so on. But with all these problems in mind, ethanol is clearly much better than oil as a fuel source.</p><br><p>The biggest problem seems to be that there's just not enough ethanol to really replace oil. Whenever I point this out, someone asks me how much ethanol there is, and I say "I don't know." Today, I found out. Someone on <abbr title="National Public Radio">NPR</abbr> said there's enough corn-based ethanol to produce 15 billion gallons of fuel a year. That's a small dent in the 140 billion gallons of oil we current use yearly.</p><br><p>I also mention in these conversations that there might be ways of making ethanol other than corn. And then someone asks me more about those alternate ethanol sources, and I say "I don't know." Today, I found out this too. <a href="http://www.desmoinesregister.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20060907/BUSINESS01/60907023/1001/RSS01">An article in the Des Moines Register</a> says <q>distilleries that can make fuel alcohol from crop waste, prairie grasses or trees rather than corn should be in operation within five years.</q></p><br><p>Unfortunately, the article doesn't say how much fuel we can expect those distilleries to produce. I expect it's nowhere near the 125 billion gallons needed to entirely replace oil. But I'm a little more hopeful than I was yesterday that between ethanol, solar, other technologies, and reduced consumption, the transition to a post-oil economy need not be very painful.</p>