---
path: "/2006/08/20/TheSuspiciousKindnessofStrangers" 
date: "2006/08/20 09:40:50" 
title: "The Suspicious Kindness of Strangers" 
---
In the past week, I've received two separate notes of encouragement to continue writing my blog from complete strangers. The first was from mdhatter, who <a href="http://typewriting.org/2006/08/07/Regular_Wednesday_Night_Gigs%2C_Likely_Moving/#comment-3679">wrote</a>:<br><blockquote>So, I came across your blog, through 'jessicas'. which i got to by looking up an A Whitney Brown quote and seeing who wrote a funny comment. That's 3 degrees away from my original search, but it was time well spent. Nice place you've got.</blockquote><br>And then someone else just sent me an email saying:<br><blockquote>I haven't yet commented but I lost your blog for a while and only recently discovered it. Even though you usually dont receive very many comments, keep up the blogging. You do a great job of it and I like hearing your interesting opinions; chances are you'll have a regular commetor.</blockquote><br>I wouldn't find this so odd except that in the five years I've been writing a weblog (oh wow, almost exactly five - <a href="http://meme3.blogspot.com/2001_08_19_meme3_archive.html">my first post was on August 22</a>), this has never happened. Am I being too cynical in suspecting some cause for this beyond the simple kindness of strangers?<br>Have I been giving off the impression recently that I intend to shut down my weblog soon? (I don't.) Is there some sort of coordinated "improve the atmosphere around here" effort afoot? (Maybe there <a href="http://bbgun.burningbird.net/fooflah/eat-the-red-couch/">should be</a>.) Is this all part of a targetted spam campaign? (I get a dozen <q>I love your blog!!</q> spam comments daily, but none with references to specific content.) Or is it really just strangers going out of their way to be nice?