---
path: "/2006/09/11/WhenTheyDied" 
date: "2006/09/11 13:40:47" 
title: "When They Died" 
---
<p>Five years ago I was driving my car from my apartment to my university when I heard on the radio that a plane had struck the World Trade Center. I assumed it was an accident and didn't think much of it until I walked by a room on my way to class or work (I don't remember which) and saw a group of people watching the news. I watched throughout the morning until it became clear to me what was happening.</p><br><p>I had a few friends in New York, but I didn't think first of them. My first thought was that this was Pearl Harbor and it was now the time to start preventing Hiroshima. I spent much of the next four years working to that end. I walked around campus in September 12 with the words "the other cheek" written on my face, in an effort to bring out the good in people and not the bad I feared was coming. I encouraged reconciliation and discouraged revenge. I helped organize multiple organizations focused on these goals.</p><br><p>I drew attention to the innocent civilians dying as we bombed Afghanistan. I loudly opposed our invasion of Iraq. I made the front page of  newspapers. I made the TV news. I spoke on panels. I campaigned for politicians calling for peace. I campaigned against politicians calling for war. I compromised and voted for Kerry. I registered voters and served as an election judge to help others do the same.</p><br><p>*None of this worked*. I hope I made some small impact, but many more innocent people have died in the pursuit of vengence for the events of five years ago than died on that day. I didn't hear they died on the radio. I didn't see it on the TV. There is no moment of silence for these people. I don't remember what I was doing when they died.</p>