---
path: "/2002/11/27/FullContentRSS" 
date: "2002/11/27 00:21:58" 
title: "Full Content RSS" 
---
<p>one of jonathon delacour's readers sent him <a href="http://weblog.delacour.net/archives/000770.html">the exact opposite complaint</a> of <a href="http://weblog.randomchaos.com/index.php?date=2002-11-21&amp;title=give+me+the+content">the one i recently made</a> of so many RSS feeds. it seems some people *don't* want the content. the reasons given and my responses are below:</p><br><ol><br><li>The RSS feed to keep informed of new posts&#8212;if he wants to read a post, he visits my site.<br/><br><i>that great for him, but what about *me*? i say the most flexible version of the feed should be presented, and this is the full feed. an aggregator can always make a feed shorter, but it can't make it longer.</i></li><br><li>Including the full text of each post undermines the effort that's gone into designing my weblog.<br/><br><i>forcing people to appreciate design is bad design. if you're more concerned with design than content, maybe RSS isn't for you.</i></li><br><li>The RSS feed should draw readers to my weblog rather than act as a substitute for it.<br/><br><i>and the internet should draw people to the printed content rather than act like a substitute for it. and the telephone should draw people to long distance travel rather than act as a substitute for it. i don't believe any of these statments are true, but more importantly, it's not possible to enforce a concept of how a communication medium *should* work.</i></li><br><li>The full RSS feed takes longer to download and he has then to scroll through a long AmphetaDesk page.<br/><br><i>on the other hand, downloading a partial RSS feed and then (re)downloading the full web page (which is what someone who want the full content must do) takes even longer. if download speed is a major concern, the fullness of the content needs to be decided before any information is sent.</i></li><br></ol><br><p>the bottom line is, any solution short of seperate feeds is going to result in one side (those who want full content or short descriptions in their RSS feeds) being unhappy.</p>