---
path: "/2002/11/07/languages:newandold" 
date: "2002/11/07 23:07:45" 
title: "languages: new and old" 
---
<p><a href="http://w3future.com/weblog/2002/11/07.html#a139">sjoerd visscher is making a new language</a>. it looks good. i guess we'll see how useful it is. but i wish people more intelligent than me would spend more time thinking up new languages without regard to their particular usefulness (but certainly with regard to their usability). i like playing with languages.</p><br><p>and that is why i have spent much of my spare time this week implementing a subset of the prolog language within the php language - because i like playing with languages. actually, that last sentence was a play with language, because it is not only that i have been playing with those two programming languages, but also that the results of such play will allow me to play with natural languages - probably mostly english. what i'm building will allow me to test the grammatical validity of a sentence based on a set of rules such as <tt>sentence(A,B) => noun(A), verb(B)</tt>, which means that two words make a sentence if the first is a noun and the second is a verb.</p><br><p>and the first thing i'll do once i have a hefty chunk of english grammar defined is rebuild my random poetry generator, which - you may remember - could generate poetically, but not grammatically, correct haikus, limericks, sonnets, and free verse. the new version will do all that, and it will be grammatically correct. the next step (probably many months away) is having the sentences make sense. and then it will do your dishes.</p>