---
path: "/2002/10/22/no,iwillnotforwardthisemailtothepresident" 
date: "2002/10/22 13:12:31" 
title: "no, i will not forward this email to the president" 
---
<div style="font-style: italic;"><br>Dear friend,<br><br>This is a form letter. I'm sending you a form letter for two reasons. First, the mistake you've made is too common for me to personally address every instance, and too troublesome for me to ignore. Second, I hope that recieving a form letter will give you some idea of how an individual in a position of power might react upon recieving hundreds or thousands of emails regarding the same issue.<br>Just as you can guess that I've spent little time and effort to send this to you, anyone can guess that the senders of form letters (and to a lesser degree, hand-typed letters) have spent little time and effort in their emailing. And constituents who don't care enough about an issue to do anything more than forward an email probably won't remember the issue come election time (for elected officials) or purchasing time (for paid officials). This is why people in power generally ignore email campaigns such as the one you are promoting.<br>Just about any other imaginable action promoting your view on this issue would have a larger effect than an email campaign. And because I support your view on this issue, I recommend that you take some other action: writing letters, making phone calls, even sending faxes, or - best of all - personal communication. I also hope you will consider retracting your previous promotion of an email campaign in favor of this alternate action, so that the myth of mass email as an effective tool of persuasion does not spread further.<br>Peace,<br /><br>Scott Reynen.</div>