---
path: "/2002/12/06/optionaldifficulty" 
date: "2002/12/06 09:54:13" 
title: "optional difficulty" 
---
<p><a href="http://weblog.infoworld.com/udell/2002/12/05.html#a531">jon udell on email whitelists</a>: <q>If we rule out spontaneous association then we will not have defeated the spammers. They will have defeated us.</q> whitelists are obviously not an ideal solution, as they create a minor difficulty where before there was none. but placing this difficulty within the email sending process means it won't change the difficulty of the email system for everyone -- only for those who want it changed. if we must create difficulty, it should at least be optional. <a href="http://www.plasticbag.org/index.shtml#90019037">tom phrases what i believe is the same idea</a> this way: <q>That is probably the best place to resolve this debate - in net citizens' interactions with, choices between (and accomplishments enabled by) various types of community software.</q> i'm begining to think maybe i don't really disagree with tom at all. i'm just saying "that's not good enough" because i know there are better solutions possible, and he's saying "it's better than nothing" because it is, and in many cases nothing seems to be the primary alternative. however, i continue to worry about the (im)possibility of removing difficulty after it has been created. i don't share tom's faith that <q>there will probably not soon be a monopoly on community technology that stops people simply choosing another form of software</q>.</p>