---
path: "/2002/12/05/where_does_the_effort_come_from?" 
date: "2002/12/05 22:59:05" 
title: "where does the effort come from?" 
---
<p><a href="http://www.plasticbag.org/index.shtml#90010331">tom responded</a> to <a href="http://weblog.randomchaos.com/index.php?date=2002-11-29&amp;title=manufacture+scarcity+or+wait">my post on manufacturing scarcity</a>. he writes <q>All around us are products and services dripping with usability decisions based around making certain uses easy <i>by</i> making others harder...</q> he's right. first, i should perhaps clarify that i have no problem with making it more difficult to do things that are (or are almost) universally agreed to be bad. spam certainly falls into this category, as does acidental house fires. also, i meant to use the word "difficulty" in a general sense. it's not always bad to create difficulty. it *is*, however, always bad to create more difficulty than ease. or, to quote the text linked to from this questionable text, <q>it is best to take actions which create the most ease and the least difficulty</q>. at the end of the day (or the week, or the month, or whenever you consider the work done), what you did should not have made people's lives more difficult than they were when you began. i'm guessing tom and i are in agreement here.</p><br><p>it's not clear to me that a paid email system would create more difficulty than ease. but it seems clear to me that there are other ways of solving the spam problem, and these ways couldn't possibly get a fair trial after somebody has a self-interest in maintaining a paid system. the radio or oil industries provide ready examples of this problem. i am assuming tom's solution would require the creation of this type of self-interest because i can't imagine how it could work otherwise.</p><br><p>tom sticks to his main point: <q>an identity should be an <i>effort</i> to use.</q> i think i understand his point here, but i don't believe it. i don't personally care much about the ability to maintain mutliple or identities or anonymity, but i can easily imagine how other people might. people in modern china (or even in a future america where the government has been granted broad control of its citizens) may have a valid desire to maintain anonymity online that is clearly more important than my annoyance with spam.</p><br><p>tom's example moves the question away from an internet-wide context to a site-specific context, but every network built on top of the internet inherits some features of the internet. tom misses one important step between the person establishing the identity and the website. he makes an assumption of questionable possibility - <q>that only one user can be logged into the site from that computer at any one time</q> - but he must also be making the assumption that the website knows from what computer the login request is originating. this is the step that the internet makes impossible by not preventing computers from posing as other computers. i'm posting this message under my website identity as administrator of this domain, from an ip address which maps to my computer in taiwan. but for all my website knows, this message could be a copy of a message created by a spammer in new jersey, which my computer recieved and passed on as if i had typed it (after i went through a one-hour login process - or maybe just recieved the password of such process from another computer in california). i don't see how tom's example system could prevent a user from sitting at a single computer all day creating identities and then passing those identities around to other computers -- assuming it can even prevent a computer from doing the same.</p>