---
path: "/2008/04/04/BrainsandCaffeine" 
date: "2008/04/04 06:40:51" 
title: "Brains and Caffeine" 
---
<p>In "<a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/7326839.stm">Daily caffeine 'protects brain'</a>," the BBC offers another explanation for <a href="http://typewriting.org/2008/03/28/My_Hippocampus/#content">my abnormal brain</a>. It's too bad I'm so queasy around blood and organs; on a purely abstract level I find this kind of biology really interesting. You'll recall I had previously suggested my brain started acting a little more like the brain of someone with Alzheimer's, a damaged hippocampus, roughly ten years ago. The BBC says:</p><br><blockquote><p>"Caffeine appears to block several of the disruptive effects of cholesterol that make the blood-brain barrier leaky," said Dr Jonathan Geiger, who led the study.</p><br><p>"High levels of cholesterol are a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease, perhaps by compromising the protective nature of the blood brain barrier.</p></blockquote><br><p>This caught my attention. I never drank coffee, but I did stop drinking soft drinks about ten years ago, at the same time I stopped eating meat. In addition to saving money, I always thought this was an obviously healthy thing to do. It would be a sad irony if it actually broke my brain.</p><br><p>On the other hand, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caffeine#Effects_on_memory_and_learning">Wikipedia's caffeine article</a> (within an entire section on caffeine and memory) specifically says <q>Researchers have found that long-term consumption of low dose caffeine (0.3 g/L) slowed hippocampus-dependent learning and impaired long-term memory.</q> So the problem could actually be that I still consume *too much* caffeine, not too little (I eat a lot of chocolate). Sigh. Brains are complicated. Stay tuned for the next episode of "What's Wrong with Scott's Brain?"</p>