---
path: "/2007/04/30/MovingtoDenver" 
date: "2007/04/30 05:01:17" 
title: "Moving to Denver" 
---
I'm a little late in mentioning here that Jessica and I are moving to Denver after we return from <a href="http://typewriting.org/2007/03/24/The_Highway_to_Machu_Picchu/#content">Peru</a>. The possibility first came up a few months ago, but we just signed a lease this weekend, so it's fairly certain now. I also signed a contract this weekend, to become a web developer at <a href="http://integer.com/">the Integer Group</a>. Astute readers will notice I am already a web developer at the Integer Group. I'm just moving from the Des Moines branch to the Denver branch.<br>I'm also moving from working remotely back to an actual office. For much of my life, my dream job was to work from home online. When Jessica found work in Illinois after searching for teaching work in Des Moines, I actually had the opportunity to work from home online. I was surprised to discover it wasn't all I had hoped. It was certainly a luxury to be able to fold laundry while thinking about issues at work, but it was also somewhat of a burden to be thinking about issues at work while folding laundry.<br>And living in a small rural town didn't help much either. I wasn't especially excited about Denver itself until our visit this weekend, but now I am. There's a lot more going on near our new place in the middle of Denver than our old place twenty minutes outside of Carbondale. I wasn't really happy with working from Carbondale, and Jessica wasn't really happy with working from Des Moines, so hopefully we can both be happy working from Denver.<br>My work transition is actually a bit more than just moving between two branches of the same company; my job will actually be changing slightly. For example, I'm currently one of three full time web developers in Des Moines, but I will be the only full time developer in Denver. The company is twice as large in Denver, so I'll have a bit more responsibility. But I also won't be doing any work for client websites as I do now, only making internal tools for the people at Integer.<br>So I still have two more weeks in Des Moines, helping to train my replacement, <a href="http://typewriting.org/2007/04/12/Two_Interviews/#content">Dan</a>. Then we have a week and a half in Peru for vacation (scheduled before Denver came up). Then I head out to Denver, with Jessica to follow shortly after. Hopefully I'll be done moving and travelling for a while after that. It's exhausting to be in a different city almost every week. But Denver was certainly worth the visit this weekend, and I have high hopes it will prove worth the move later this month.